the leader of the Hezbollah militia in
Lebanon Hassan nzela has threatened a
fight with no rules if Israel launches a
fullscale war against his group he also
said EU memb Cyprus would be a
legitimate Target in any future War if
it continues its military cooperation
with Israel the statement followed
Israel's announcement that its military
has approved a plan for an operation in
southern
Lebanon the latest strikes on
Lebanon Israel and the militant group
Hezbollah have been trading crossb
attacks almost
daily now they have taken steps with the
potential for a fullscale
conflict Israel has approved what it
calls operational plans for an offensive
in Lebanon we've made absolutely clear
that one way or another diplomatically
or through uh military means uh our our
northern border the north of our country
will our Israeli Sovereign territory
will be made safe for Israel's
population Israel's people to return
there hezbollah's leader Hassan nasala
responded by promising a fight with no
rules they have to wait for us on the
ground in the air and in the
sea we have said this before and I will
say this again today if the wars imposed
on Lebanon the resistance will fight
without control without rules and
without a
ceiling the crossborder exchanges of
fire began after the October seven
terrorist attack by Hamas the UN says
more than 400 people were killed in
Lebanon in such strikes including dozens
of civilians on the Israeli side the
reported casualties amount to at least
25 soldiers and
civilians Hezbollah says it is ready to
deescalate but to do so it wants
something that has proven difficult to
achieve alastin ceasefire in
Gaza well let's examine this
with from the Washington Institute for
NE East policy welcome to the day um is
a fullscale military confrontation
between Israel and Hezbollah on the
ground in the air and in the sea as
Hassan nzala put it is that more likely
now hi how are you H thank you for
having me um my short answer and I'll
explain is no uh still I believe still
that it's unlikely for the simple reason
uh that both parties do not have uh an
interest in a full scale war and just
let me explain why from hasb Allah's
side they have many many many challenges
that make them feel that they cannot
afford a fullscale war one this is not
their War their job today is to protect
Iran's interests that is the Iranian
regime and its nuclear program once the
Iranians feel that they are directly
threatened they will use hasah as an
insurance policy or they will unleash
them if they feel that it's necessary
this is not the time for Iran
hezbollah's War this is Hezbollah wants
to keep it calculated and also they do
have military challenges they do not
have the war budget they do not have the
uh Commandments they do not have a
proper Commander with a vision that
would lead the war and this is just not
their war on the Israeli side this is a
this what's happening today is both
parties are trying to reestablish
deterrence after months of the conflict
the Israelis are definitely more
interested in war and they have more
capabilities to uh set back
however there are two important issue
three important issues for Israel that
are deterring them so far from a
fullscale war one which is the most
important one is that they still not
100% sure that the US wants another
front with the in the region another war
in the region before the presidential
elections in America in November and
this support is needed by Israel in
order to launch a war that GZA will look
like a tiny uh uh war in in front of a
big Lebanese war that would drag in all
the Shi militias Iran back militias in
the region and could very well develop
into a regional War uh that would drag
the us into it and the US does not want
that so a political Military Support by
the US is a challenge two the Israel
needs to finish Gaza take a breather
restock re uh rethink and today what
they're doing actually they are
targeting hasbullah without the risk of
thousands of uh prec Precision missiles
attacking Israel and causing more
displacements so it's kind of not ideal
situation but I think it's more
effective than going into a war the
rhetoric escalation that we're seeing
today is more I think is to reestablish
deterence and force the other side to
stop or to accept a certain compromise
or a deal that is proposed by the
Americans it's more of a a flexing
muscles and showing what can be done in
case of a war okay so th this this in
your analysis this is about the the the
this this ceasefire deal that that Joe
Biden announced to the world a couple of
weeks ago this is this is
positioning exactly I think this is
positioning this is preemptive measure
rather than uh a reactive measure this
is like what hasah is doing is trying to
pre prevent the war by increasing the
rhetorical escalation they are trying to
say that we haven't used everything that
we have we haven't targeted everything
that we can Target and today they he
added Cyprus to the list but it's not
really just about Cyprus it's really
about the eastern Med Eastern
Mediterranean and it's really about
Europe it's like they he wants this
pressure to push the Europeans and the
International Community to put more
pressure on Israel in order because
hasah feels that the israelies are
becoming more serious about a war that
they are starting to believe that Israel
might actually escalate maybe not a
full-fledged War but a real escalation
and they have suffered a lot of Damages
they cannot afford for this war between
War to continue uh uh because this is
this is this opportunity Lebanon was not
targeted before October 7 Syria was a
different scenario where it was open for
Israeli military attacks every day
assassinating commanders irgc Hezbollah
Lebanon was a red line for everyone
today this has changeed the Syria
scenario moved to Lebanon and Lebanon is
an open field and hasah is suffering a
lot of military damage assets uh
Personnel commanders
infrastructure weapons Etc so they they
need to reestablish deteran to stop them
right let's hope you're right thank you
so much for talking us through that Han
Kar from the Washington Institute for
near East policy thank you so much thank
you very
much let's take a closer look at these
developments Randa slim is a Lebanese
American foreign policy specialist from
the us-based Middle East Institute
welcome to DW so we we've heard this
threat then from Hezbollah leader Hassan
nazah he's warned Israel to be ready for
his forces on the ground in the air and
in the sea if Israel launches a war in
Lebanon is this rhetoric or is an allout
War a real
possibility I have been following Nal
speeches since October 7 and he has
given plenty many of them um and this is
the first time that I really was alarmed
by the tone partly because it came on
the heels of a message conveyed by us
Envoy Amos Hawkin to the Lebanese
government and then from them relate to
Hezbollah that if there is no sensation
of hostilities on the Israel uh Lebanon
border within the next four to five
weeks then Israel will organize a
limited will will engage in a what's
called limited operation and we don't
know how limited it is whether it's only
limited to the southern region of
Lebanon you know near the border with
Israel or whether it is going to involve
attacks on the capital Beirut other
parts where hisbah of Beirut where hasah
has um you know major presence um and
and and and I think the message of NASA
yesterday was very much a reply to this
message that if Israel were to decide to
do this lar this incursion in Lebanon or
this attack on Lebanon then there will
be no rules no limits no boundaries to
hezbollah's reaction hasbalah has been
trying to deter Israel since it started
its war of support of the pales Ians in
Gaza and it has been escalating you know
in a tit forat pattern with Israeli
action but all the time wanting to
prevent a allout war and it looks like
we might just it's just the timeline is
not helping them anymore and do we
presume then that the Israeli threat is
a credible one fighting on two fronts in
Gaza and in Lebanon
the the the timeline is interesting
because the message that was conveyed by
the US invoy to Lebanese authorities is
that if this is going to happen it's
going to be within the next four to five
weeks and this is supposedly when Israel
is presumed to have finished with most
of its operation in Rafa and then it can
turn more of its attention and its
resources to the north uh northern
border so uh so is it credible I mean it
was conveyed by a us Envoy and the
timeline seemed to align itself with
where the war in Raza is going Hezbollah
of course part funded by Iran if a
fullblown war uh with Israel were to
break out uh what do you expect um the
Iranian response would
be well I mean depending on what kind of
operation again Israel does and whether
hisbah can withstand that kind of
assault or not uh I don't think Iran
will intervene if hisbah can take care
of itself and can and will be able to
repel whatever Advance uh whatever
operation that Israel will will organize
uh against Lebanese territory uh I think
the red line for Iran has always been
any existential threat tobah like it has
been also in Israel I mean in Palestine
any existential threat to Hamas uh and
so um I think as long as that the
situation does not create an existential
threat to hisbah Iran will not intervene
hisbah will be able to take care of
itself and of you know of of its defense
and and Lebanon has always been this
this strange creature with Hezbollah
acting as an army within the Lebanese
state so does the Lebanese government
just look on and watch this this happen
um in its own land
yes unfortunately yes and I think the
all the decision of War and Peace now
have been in the hands of hisbah for
some time including for example in
20112 when hisbah decided to send its
troops to Syria to help prop up the
Assad regime when at at the time that
the Lebanese government made a decision
to disassociate itself from the Syrian
War so yes uh war and peace decision
have been in the hands of hisbah for
some time in Lebanon thank you so much
for guiding us through that so clearly
Randa Slim from the us-based Middle East
Institute thank you so
much thank you and we can now get a
broader perspective on these
developments and welcome Katrina samour
she's with the Emirates policy Center
that's an independent Think Tank Miss
samour joins us from the Jordanian
Capital Aman welcome to DW now Hezbollah
leader Hassan Nala has ramped up the
rhetoric we heard it there is this just
safe rattling or a threat to be taken
very
seriously um we need to also consider
that not only nah has been uh raising
the rhetoric but also the Israeli
government has been raising the rhetoric
when it comes to South Lebanon and the
hisbah attacks on uh the North of Israel
uh what they're both are trying to do
they're trying to raise the rhetoric to
deescalate the situation basically to
raise the alarm of a possible war that
they both want would try to avoid it is
very interesting to look that nella's
speech came after uh a video footage was
released from the Recon drones um which
was a clear message that hisbah has
access their drones have access to
sensitive Israeli military uh facilities
and locations and it was a clear message
that hasah is still committed to Rules
of Engagement and is and is choosing not
to escalate
which and the same thing with Israel
when they say that they have a plan to
engage in south of Lebanon it is not a
declaration of war we need to remember
that it is just an approved plan by the
military so both parties are trying to
avoid a wider conflict nah is also
trying to create more pressure in
Israeli Society on BB's government to
reach a ceasefire agreement and also to
relieve some of the pressure on and Gaza
for the Hamas for the Hamas members that
are operating there still something that
sorry to jump in there but but something
that raised eyebrows in the EU
especially was naz's threat to attack
Cyprus if it opened its airport and
basis to Israeli forces is that a
realistic possibility a realistic
scenario if those two were really to
clash look uh the war on Gaza has
changed a lot of Dynamics in the Middle
East and I don't believe there will be a
full confrontation or attack on Cyprus
for example but it could affect its
shipping it could affect uh its trade uh
and and diplomatic uh and economic
relations with the region um if we see
the patterns of uh Iran mobilizing its
proxies in groups it happened on a a
very gradual uh way in a very gradual
way so we saw the huis uh escalate and
escalate in the Red Sea hisbah has
escalated in South Lebanon and the
Iranian backed militias in Iraq have
escalated with time so we cannot just
assume that this is going to be like
hisbah engaging with Cyprus or attacking
Cyprus we need to look at the wider
context and the and and basically the
geography of the region and where Cyprus
fits in so for me a real possibility
would be is uh influencing or affecting
uh Cy trade and and shipping Yeah you
mentioned Iran there Hezbollah is of
course in part funded by Iran now you
say a full-blown war is not in anybody's
interests at this point but things can
get out of control and how would you
expect Terron to to behave where there
to be a wider
conflict uh tan and uh Iran is not going
to engage directly in in a war with with
Israel because that means if Iran
engages that means the United States
engages that means the UK will engage
it's will not want to have a full-blown
confrontation with Israel and Israel's
allies affecting its wider project in
the Middle East but as we've seen with
the huis the pmf in Iraq and with the
hisbah in Lebanon Iran will mobilize
through its proxies so we will need to
look at the moving pieces in the region
and how will Iran use them to support L
support to hisbah mainly through Supply
routs through Iraq and Syria which means
then if you want to engage with hisbah
and you're gonna or or have like have a
wider conflict with hisbah you will need
to Target their supply rootes which
means you will Target Syria you will
Target Iraq bringing the region again
into a wider conflict um leaving
countries like us Jordan again on the
front on the Forefront of these regional
conflict and putting our national
security at threat a scenario that many
where you are and where we are are
trying to avoid that was Katrina samour
from the Emirates policy Center think
tank thank you so much for your
time thank you thank you let's get some
analysis now with makram Raba he's an
assistant professor of history at the
American University of Beirut welcome
sir how do you read nasrallah's comments
is it a warning shot or does Hezbollah
actually want war with
Israel I genuinely believe that masah
statement yesterday reflects that of a
drowning man who's trying to uh to scare
people into accepting that he has the
ability to take on one of the most
advanced armies in the region the
problem is that many of nella's claims
rest on the fact that he assumes that
Israel will launch a fullscale military
operation but if we are to uh to Monitor
and to analyze what's happening Israel
are surgically removing the threat on
its northern border by targeting high
ranking military uh military officials
within hisbah if this continues it is on
its own sufficient to [__] many of
hezbollah's abilities in addition to the
fact that Nala is uh betting that Iran's
proxies across the region or across the
globe will come to his Aid one has to
mention that nasala or his people have
been hinting to the fact that Taliban
even want to join the fight on the 11
and all this is not realistic given the
fact that if such a scenario does occur
Hezbollah will not only be fighting
Israel but it will be fighting the
International Community as well as the
NATO you're talking about targeted
attacks from Israel against Hezbollah
but many in Israel not least among the
military BL brass say it's not a
question of if but when we'll see a
full-blown war with Hezbollah is that
the view in Lebanon as
well well everyone is waiting for the
real big war unfortunately while they
are waiting for this war we are in the
midst of a different type of War as I
mentioned before and this is why I think
that going forward Israel will start
targeting uh political assets within
hisbah and not only restrict its targets
to the south of Lebanon and even can go
far as to attack hisbah civilians
infrastructure however a fullscale war
ident iCal to that in 20 2006 is not
even on the table for many reasons first
of all as long as the ra operation is
Ono I don't think that the Israeli Army
will launch two military operations at
the same time yet when we get to the
point where the Gaza war is uh completed
we will have a new uh ball game and we
will have a new playbook unfortunately
and this is something that the Lebanese
do not understand that Israel has been
preparing for such a scenario on its
northern border and it has more
reverence and more respect tob's
military capabilities and this is why
they will be ready when the time comes
and this will come at the expense of the
innocent lives of the Lebanese people I
wanted to talk about hezbollah's
military capabilities because of this
video that Hezbollah released on Tuesday
showing apparently uh a Drone footage
from over hia and it claims to pinpoint
quote sensitive Israeli military sides
what does that say about hezbollah's
capabilities given that n just claimed
that the group has new weapons as
well well the the key word here is claim
and all of this so-called access of
resistance claims that it has technology
I genuinely believe that technology
needs democracies and many of these
countries be it North Korea Iran and
even hisbah they claim that they have
Cutting Edge weapons the fact that they
have been able to sneak in a small drone
into hia doesn't really mean that they
have the ability to destroy hia in
addition to the fact that such footage
and such gimmicks and theatrics from
hisbah they give the Israeli Army and
the Israeli political establishment more
reason to get its own people and to
mobilize public opinion as well as the
Biden Administration behind them because
if any potential attack against haa or
even against the island of Cyprus like
yesterday's statement with with Nala
would also indicate that it will disrupt
the maritime activities in the
Mediterranean and this is something that
the International Community does not
want to have a new hthi threat like the
one at the moment in the Red Sea the
kind of statements that we are hearing
from Hassan nasah is that what Iran
wants to hear as
well well at the end of the day nah is
justce mouthpiece for Iran I don't tend
to agree that hisbah has its own mind or
it can actually operate independently of
Iran and certainly we have seen how the
the Iranians want a kind of a deal and
they just are trying to wait out the war
in hopes that a future Democratic
Administration in Washington DC would
allow them to go back to the old system
whereas in fact I think everyone needs
to remember that the word has changed
after October 7 be it the Lebanon
scenario or even the fact that many
people have believed that the real
threat was the nuclear weapons on the
region was the recent events have proven
that the real threat on the area and
International Security
are the proxies of Iran and they will
start to deal with this
accordingly we'll leave it there for the
moment but thanks so much for joining us
today makram Raba assistant professor of
history at the American University of
beut thank you sir